# Create a virtual network #
In this walkthrough, we will create a virtual network, deploy two virtual machines onto that virtual network and then configure them to allow one virtual machine to ping the other within that virtual network.

## Task1: Create a virtual network ##
In this task, we will create a virtual network.

1. Open your choice of web browser and sign in to the Azure portal by navigating to https://portal.azure.com and entering the following Azure Credentials:
    * Username: alumnoXX@juanquijanodemos.onmicrosoft.com
    * Password: AzurePa55w0rd1234
2. On Stay signed in? select Yes.
3. From the All services blade, search for and select Virtual networks, and then click + Create.
4. On the Basics tab, fill in the following information (leave the defaults for everything else):

    | Setting | Value |
    |---------|-------|
    | Subscription | Aula01 |
    | Resource Group | RGalumnoXX |
    | Name | vnetalumnoXX |
    | Region | ask to trainer |

5. Click the Review + create button. Ensure the validation passes. Then hit Create to deploy the resource.

## Task 2: Create two virtual machines ##
In this task, we will create two virtual machines in the virtual network.
1. From the All services blade, search for and select Virtual machines and then click + Create, from the drop down select Azure Virtual Machine.
2. On the Basics tab, fill in the following information (leave the defaults for everything else):

    | Setting | Value |
    |---------|-------|
    | Subscription | Aula01 |
    | Resource Group | RGalumnoXX |
    | Virtual machine name | vm1alumnoXX |
    | Region | <same vnet> |
    | Availability options | No infraestructure redundancy requiered |
    | Image | Windows Server 2022 Datacenter: Azure Edition - x64 Gen2 |
    | Size | Standard_D2s_V3 |
    | Username | azureuser |
    | Password | AzurePa55w0rd |
    | Public inbound ports | Allow selected ports |
    | Selected inbound ports | RDP (3389) |

4. In Monitoring tab. In Diagnostics section. Disable Boot diagnostics.
6. Click Review + create. After the Validation passes, click Create. Deployment times can vary but it can generally take between three to six minutes to deploy.
7. Monitor your deployment, but continue on to the next step.
8. Create a second virtual machine by repeating steps 1 to 3 above. Make sure that the virtual machine is in the same virtual network and subnet, and is using a new public IP address:

    | Setting | Value |
    |---------|-------|
    | Subscription | Aula01 |
    | Resource Group | RGalumnoXX |
    | Virtual machine name | vm2alumnoXX |
    | Region | <same vnet> |
    | Availability options | No infraestructure redundancy requiered |
    | Image | Windows Server 2022 Datacenter: Azure Edition - x64 Gen2 |
    | Size | Standard_D2s_V3 |
    | Username | azureuser |
    | Password | AzurePa55w0rd |
    | Public inbound ports | Allow selected ports |
    | Selected inbound ports | RDP (3389) |

4. In Monitoring tab. In Diagnostics section. Disable Boot diagnostics.

6. Click Review + create. After the Validation passes, click Create. Deployment times can vary but it can generally take between three to six minutes to deploy.

9. Navigate back to the Virtual machines home page and wait for both virtual machines to deploy successfully and their status' to read Running.

## Task 3: Test the connection ##
In this task, we will try to test whether the virtual machines can communicate (ping) each other. If not we will install a rule to allow an ICMP connection. Usually ICMP connections are automatically blocked.
1. Select the vm1 virtual machine in Virtual machines. Open its Overview blade, and confirm its Status is Running. You may need to Refresh the page.
2. On the Overview blade, select Connect.
Note: The following directions tell you how to connect to your VM from a Windows computer.
3. On the vm1 | Connect blade, click Select under Native RDP. In the pane that appears, click to download the RDP file in step 3. Select Keep in the Downloads pop-up box if prompted.
4. Open the downloaded RDP file and click Connect when prompted.
5. In the Windows Security window, type the username azureuser and password AzurePa55w0rd and then click OK.
6. You may receive a certificate warning during the sign-in process. Click Yes to create the connection and connect to your deployed VM. You should connect successfully. Close the Windows Server and Dashboard windows that pop up. You should see a Blue Windows background. You are now in your virtual machine.
7. In both newly created virtual machines, connect via RDP and disable both the public and private firewall by opening the Start menu > Settings and typing Windows Firewall. In the results, select Firewall & network protection.
8. Open up PowerShell on the VM1 virtual machine by clicking the Start button, and in Search type PowerShell, right click on Windows PowerShell to Run as administrator
9. In Powershell, try to ping vm2 by typing:
10. ping vm2
11. You should be successful. You have pinged VM2 from VM1.

Congratulations! You have configured and deployed two virtual machines in a virtual network, and then you were able to connect them.

