# Explore Azure Databricks #
Azure Databricks is a Microsoft Azure-based version of the popular open-source Databricks platform.

Similarly to Azure Synapse Analytics, an Azure Databricks workspace provides a central point for managing Databricks clusters, data, and resources on Azure.

## Task 1: Provision a resource group ##
In this exercise, you’ll create a single-node cluster to minimize the compute resources used in the lab environment (in which resources may be constrained). In a production environment, you’d typically create a cluster with multiple worker nodes.

Open your choice of web browser and sign in to the Azure portal by navigating to https://portal.azure.com and entering your Azure Credentials:
<!--
    * Username: alumnoXX@juanquijanodemos.onmicrosoft.com
    * Password: AzurePa55w0rd1234
-->
On *Stay signed in?* select Yes.

In the top search bar of the Azure portal, type *Resource group*.

On the Basics tab of the *Create resource group* blade, fill in the following information. Leave the defaults for everything else.

<!--
    | Setting | Value |
    |---------|-------|
    | Subscription | Aula01 |
    | Resource Group | RGalumnoXX |
    | Function App name | storageaccalumnoXX |
    | Region | Spain Central |
-->

<table border="1">
    <thead>
    <tr style="background-color: lightgray;"><td>Setting </td><td>Value</tr>
    </thead>
    <tr><td>Subscription</td><td>Azure subscription 1</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Resource Group</td><td>MDSA2409A< student's initials ></td></tr>
    <tr><td>Region</td><td>West Europe</td></tr>
</table>

Click *Review + create*, and then click *Create*.

A notification window will indicate that the resource has been created. Click the button to go to the *Resource group*.

## Task 2: Provision an Azure Databricks resource ##
In this task, we will create an Azure Databricks workspace and a compute cluster.

In the top search bar of the Azure portal, type *Databricks* and click on the orange Azure Databricks icon.

Click the *Create* button.

On the *Basics* tab, enter the following configuration:

<table border="1">
    <thead>
    <tr style="background-color: lightgray;"><td>Setting </td><td>Value</tr>
    </thead>
    <tr><td>Subscription</td><td>Azure subscription 1</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Resource Group</td><td>MDSA2409A< student's initials ></td></tr>
    <tr><td>Workspace name</td><td>MDSA2409A<  student's initials ></td></tr>
    <tr><td>Region</td><td>West Europe</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Pricing Tier</td><td>Premium (+ Role-based access controls)</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Managed Rg name</td><td>MDSA2409A<  student's initials >_mg</td></tr>
</table>

Click on the *Tags* tab and add a new tag with the following values:

<table border="1">
    <thead>
    <tr style="background-color: lightgray;"><td>Setting </td><td>Value</tr>
    </thead>
    <tr><td>Name</td><td>curso</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Value</td><td>MDSA2409A</td></tr>
</table>

Click on *Review + create*, and then click *Create*.

**Note**: Wait until the notification confirms that the resource has been created.

## Task 3: Provision Compute resource ##
Azure Databricks is a distributed processing platform that uses Apache Spark clusters to process data in parallel on multiple nodes. Each cluster consists of a driver node to coordinate the work, and worker nodes to perform processing tasks.

In this exercise, you’ll create a single-node cluster to minimize the compute resources used in the lab environment (in which resources may be constrained). In a production environment, you’d typically create a cluster with multiple worker nodes.

Select your Azure Databricks Service resource named MDSA2409A< student's initials >.

In the *Overview* page for your workspace, use the *Launch Workspace* button to open your Azure Databricks workspace in a new browser tab, signing in if prompted.

**Tip**: As you use the Databricks Workspace portal, various tips and notifications may be displayed. Dismiss these and follow the instructions provided to complete the tasks in this exercise.

In the Azure Databricks workspace portal, note that the sidebar on the left side contains links for the various types of tasks you can perform. Select the *Compute* icon.

On the *Compute* page, click on the *Create Compute* button.

On the *New Compute* page, create a new cluster with the following settings:

<table border="1">
    <thead>
    <tr style="background-color: lightgray;"><td>Setting </td><td>Value</tr>
    </thead>
    <tr>
        <td>Cluster name</td><td>Cluster student initials</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Policy</td><td>Personal compute</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">Terminate after 15 minutes of inactivity</td>
    </tr>
</table>

Click on the *Create compute* button.

Wait for the cluster to be created. It may take a minute or two.

**Note:** If your cluster fails to start, your subscription may have insufficient quota in the region where your Azure Databricks workspace is provisioned. If this happens, you can try deleting your workspace and creating a new one in a different region.

Once created, click the *Terminate* button.

Congratulations! You have built a compute cluster that will be used in the following exercises.