# Create First Notebook #
As in many Spark environments, Databricks supports the use of notebooks to combine notes and interactive code cells that you can use to explore data.

## Task 1: Upload data to Dataframe ##
As in many Spark environments, Databricks supports the use of notebooks to combine notes and interactive code cells that you can use to explore data.

Download the [products.csv](resources\products.csv) file to your local computer, saving it as products.csv. Then, in the sidebar, *select Workspace icon*.

Pulse en el menú de los *tres puntos verticales*, al lado del botón de *Share*. En el menú desplegable escoje Import.

In the Upload Data dialog box, select *Import from* **File** option, and choose the *products.csv* file you downloaded to your computer. When the file has been uploaded, select *Import*

En tu workspace ahora debe aparecer el fichero *products.csv*.

Pulsa en el botón azul de
*Create* y escoge **Notebook** para crear uno nuevo.

Change the default notebook name *(Untitled Notebook [date])* to **Explore products** and in the *Connect drop-down list*, select your cluster if it is not already selected. If the cluster is not running, it may take a minute or so to start.

In the Explore products notebook, in the empty code cell, paste the code you copied; which should look similar to this:

<code>
import os
df1= spark.read.format("csv").load(f"file:{os.getcwd()}/products.csv")
</code>

Use the ▸ Run Cell menu option at the top-right of the cell to run it, starting and attaching the cluster if prompted.

Wait for the Spark job run by the code to complete. The code has created a dataframe object named df1 from the data in the file you uploaded.

Under the existing code cell, use the *+* icon to add a new code cell. Then in the new cell, enter the following code:

<code>
display(df1)
</code>

Use the ▸ Run Cell menu option at the top-right of the new cell to run it. 

This code displays the contents of the dataframe, which should look similar to this:


Above the table of results, select + and then select Visualization to view the visualization editor, and then apply the following options:

* Visualization type: Bar
* X Column: Category
* Y Column: Add a new column and select ProductID. Apply the Count aggregation.

Save the visualization and observe that it is displayed in the notebook, like this:

A bar chart showing product counts by category